---
author: bydiao
comments: true
date: 2016-09-22
layout: post
title: Spark版本进化
mathjax: true
categories: [Big Data]
tags: [Spark]
---

##### Spark 哲学
    * 统一编程模型，Streaming，batch，graphic
    * 高级易用的编程接口，High level API
    * 集成多种Storage Interface
##### Spark 1.3
Spark 1.3.0 is the fourth release on the 1.X line. This release brings a new DataFrame API alongside the graduation of Spark SQL from an alpha project. It also brings usability improvements in Spark’s core engine and expansion of MLlib and Spark Streaming. Spark 1.3 represents the work of 174 contributors from more than 60 institutions in more than 1000 individual patches.

    * DataFrame API is proposed
    * Spark SQL is formally released
    [链接](http://spark.apache.org/releases/spark-release-1-3-0.html)

##### Spark 1.4
Spark 1.4.0 is the fifth release on the 1.X line. This release brings an R API to Spark. It also brings usability improvements in Spark’s core engine and expansion of MLlib and Spark Streaming. Spark 1.4 represents the work of more than 210 contributors from more than 70 institutions in more than 1000 individual patches.
    * Spark R
    [链接](http://spark.apache.org/releases/spark-release-1-4-0.html)

##### Spark 1.6
    * Dataset API 

##### Spark 2.0
    Apache Spark 2.0.0 is the first release on the 2.x line. The major updates are API usability, SQL 2003 support, performance improvements, structured streaming, R UDF support, as well as operational improvements. In addition, this release includes over 2500 patches from over 300 contributors.
    * Unifying DataFrame and Dataset: In Scala and Java, DataFrame and Dataset have been unified, i.e. DataFrame is just a type alias for Dataset of Row. In Python and R, given the lack of type safety, DataFrame is the main programming interface.
    * Spark 2.0 substantially improved SQL functionalities with SQL2003 support. Spark SQL can now run all 99 TPC-DS queries. More prominently, we have improved:
    [链接](http://spark.apache.org/releases/spark-release-2-0-0.html)